This morning, we’re going
to discuss the thought
of keeping “the belt of truth”
tight around our waists.
Now, why is that so important?
Well, we see in the world today
there’s just no end to the misinformation,
the lies, the falsehoods
that are being spread.
But in addition to that, as Jehovah’s people
we face all sorts
of verbal attacks, don’t we?
People accuse us of horrific things,
and this can be very discouraging.
So that’s why we need to make sure
that we’ve got “the belt of truth”
firmly around our waist—tight.
But how can we tighten it?
Well, of course,
there are many different ways
that we can reassure ourselves of the truth.
But this morning, I thought we might talk
about just one thing that may help us,
and that is to go back to the basics.
From time to time, think about this question,
What was it that convinced me or my family
that this is the truth?
And if we meditate on that,
it can help to strengthen our resolve
to continue in the truth.
And in this way, figuratively speaking,
it’s as if we tighten the belt.
And we all know, those of us who wear belts,
you need a tight belt for it to be effective.
Now, with that in mind,
if you ever visit me in my office,
you’ll notice that I have two things
that from time to time I’ll look at.
One is this publication.
Now, when you look at it, you might say
the same as my wife did a few days ago:
“Don’t you have
a better copy of that edition?
It’s not really looking so good.”
So why is this in my collection of books
in the office?
Well, because this is the book,
“Let God Be True,”
that my mother started studying in 1956
when she was contacted
in the door-to-door work.
Now, I have a connection to this
because at that time I was 18 months old.
And as you can see in the front,
I had no potential whatsoever
of being in the Writing Department
or the Art Department.
But I guess it did prove
that at an early age,
I was interested in books.
Anyway, this book is close to my heart
because it helped my mother
at a time when she faced some opposition.
She’d just started using this book
when a minister from the Methodist Church
and a missionary
came along to her house to try to force her
to stop studying with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Now, what did they do?
Well, they berated the Witnesses.
They said all sorts of falsehoods.
And they said everything they could
that was negative about Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Once they left, my mother said that she felt
very discouraged and disheartened
after being the victim of this verbal abuse.
So, what did she do?
She took her King James Bible
and turned to a scripture
that she had just studied in paragraph 5
of this book in the first chapter.
Maybe you’d like to read it with me,
if you would.
If you have an electronic device,
you have an advantage this morning
because I’d like you to turn
to the book of Isaiah 8:20.
But I’d like you to read it
from the King James Version.
So Isaiah 8:20
—and if you tap on verse 20,
you’ll see that the King James Version
may come up.
It says: “To the law and to the testimony:
“if they speak not according to this word,
it is  because there is  no light in them.”
Now, that touched her heart
and helped her to make the decision
to continue studying.
Now, if you’re like me,
you are probably trying to work out:
‘What is “the testimony”?
What’s this all about?’
But if you look at the revised text
of the New World Translation  in verse 20,
it helps us, doesn’t it?
There, it says: “Instead,
they should inquire of the law
“and of the written confirmation!
When they do not speak according
to this word, they have no light.”
So she realized that these two
who had come to visit her
did not show her anything
from the Scriptures.
Rather, they just said what they felt
about Jehovah’s Witnesses.
So that helped her because she realized,
as the “Let God Be True”  book
says in chapter 1,
that everything we believe about God
needs to be based
on the Word of God, the Bible
—in other words, written confirmation.
So that’s the first lesson—the first point
that is a good reminder to me personally.
No matter what people say about us,
no matter what negative comments are made,
we can always take comfort in the thought
that our beliefs are solidly based
on the Bible.
Now, the second thing
that you might notice in my office
is this Watchtower  magazine.
It’s from February 15, 1955.
So if I’m not in my office
and you see it, you may think,
‘Ah, he’s got that there because he was born
just a couple of weeks after this.’
No, that’s not the reason it’s there.
The reason is that this was the second thing
that helped my mother
to take a stand for the truth.
There were two beautiful articles
in this Watchtower.
The first one was entitled
“Only One Right Religion.”
And notice how it starts off:
“If you pay for wheat
will you settle for straw?
“If you buy wine will you accept water?
“Or if you thirst for water
will you be satisfied with mud?
“What if someone came to prove
“that you were being defrauded
in these ways?
Would you be angry with him
or with the one who was cheating you?”
What a great start to the article!
And then it went on to show
how the truth of God’s Word
is being taught by Jehovah’s people today.
But there’s a second scripture
that was in this magazine
that really helped my mother.
So if you’d like, turn with me
to the book of Jeremiah
—Jeremiah chapter 23.
Now, in the context of this,
we’re going to read verses 28 and 29.
But in the previous verses,
it mentions false prophets
—those who tell lies, who are dreaming,
and who try to explain their dreams.
And verse 27 says that these are
the same ones who teach people
or ‘intend to make them forget my name.’
So, what do verses 28 and 29 say?
“Let the prophet who has a dream
relate the dream,
“but the one who has my word
“should speak my word truthfully.
‘What does the straw have in common
with the grain?’ declares Jehovah.”
Do you see how the Watchtower  article
was tied in there about grain and straw?
But the point is that we need
to speak God’s Word truthfully.
Now, the second article in this magazine,
which is equally good,
helps persons to see the need
to select the true religion;
it is “Choosing the One Right Religion.”
In this article, it raises the point
that sometimes people will say:
‘Well, I just don’t have time to investigate
all the religions in the world.
‘How can I find the truth?
It’s just like trying to find
a needle in a haystack.’
Well, this magazine,
building on what was said in Jeremiah, said,
‘Well, if you go to a haystack
looking for a needle,
you don’t have to look
at every straw in the haystack.’
Actually, they recommend
quite a radical move,
‘Burn the haystack, and then with a magnet,
you can find the needle.’
Now, what’s the point?
Well, as it goes on to say, you see,
as Jeremiah said,
‘God’s Word is like a fire.’
You see, in verse 29, it says
it’s like a fire that consumes the rubbish.
So we don’t have to go around investigating
all the various teachings
of different religions.
That would be like a huge haystack.
But rather, when we study the Bible
and we see the pure truth in the Scriptures,
then we can identify anything
that’s virtually rubbish or straw.
And we have the real thing.
Yes, that helps to really convince us
that we have the truth.
Because if people don’t even know
Jehovah’s name,
why would we believe them?
And if they believe
that people are going to hellfire,
why would we believe everything that they say
—particularly if they’re criticizing
Jehovah’s people?
So, what about you?
What was it that convinced you
that you found the truth?
Well, it’s good from time to time
to think about that question.
In my case, I think of those things
that my mother taught me.
The first one from the book of Isaiah:
to make sure that what we believe
is based on the Bible.
And then the second thing:
We don’t have to investigate
every story that’s told to us.
Once we have the truth from the Bible,
we can recognize
what’s right and what’s wrong.
Yes, we don’t need to listen
to the “father of the lie,”
but we certainly believe
in “the God of truth.”